https://advtechonline-my.sharepoint.com/personal/st10454560_vcconnect_edu_za/Documents/Pet%20App%20Report.docx?web=1
Pet App Report



Student Number: ST10454560
Module: IMAD 5112
Lecturer: Rawal Dukwah
Name: Ndalo Sosibo
 
 
The Pet App in its core, is an app that’s meant to be recreational. The app appeals to more the younger generation. For the children that want pets, but their parents won’t let them have them yet. Or for those who perhaps, for some odd reasons cannot have pets, surely, they also deserve the experience of having a pet. Who’s to decide they can’t? With so much technology available, it is easier to have such an experience. Introducing the virtual pet app, I call it The Pet APP. It introduces an interactive way to have a pet without dealing with all the real stress a pet may provide in your daily life.
This Pet App, as the name suggests, makes you a “parent” to your very own pet! How exciting! This pet behaves and needs to get taken care of like a very real pet. For the pet of this app, I’ve chosen to go with a pet sloth, some of the laziest creatures out there. The pet is very alive, it has a health bar. The bars decrease over time. For example, when you don’t feed the pet, the bar decreases. When you don’t clean your pet sloth, he also gets quite upset and his health still deteriorates. Of course, his health deteriorates naturally. It decreases over a span of time, just like how us humans experience hunger over a span of time. The game gives you 3 options to take care of him. You can clean our pet sloth; you can feed our pet sloth and you can play with our pet sloth. Do that and the pet stays as calm as he always (sloths don’t really get excited do they). The app has 4 pages, starting with a home/landing page. For the home page, we are greeted with a huge title at the top of the screen. This text represents the pet greeting you as it’s owner and welcoming you back (it missed you ☹). The background of the home page is a lovely, animated garden, in which our cute pet sloth is sitting on a pathway. Our pet is also animated, and he also moves! I did this using Gifs, to make him feel much more natural to interact with. I did this throughout the app with the appropriate gifs for each scenario. As our cute sloth is waiting on the home screen, the user glances below the pet to find what are 3 buttons, giving you the options to carry your desired actions. When you select clean, it takes you to a gorgeous, animated bathroom in which you can proceed to clean your lovely pet. Of course, as you would expect, this comes with it’s cute gif as well. From this page we can go back to the home screen. Thereafter we can select our next button which is the feed button. This button takes you to another page, which is our kitchen. The animated kitchen is quirky in its nature, reiterating that the app is fun to use. You can proceed to feed the pet by tapping the feed button on screen in which it will gives us a progress bar showing us that the action is taking place. This page also has its own gif to pair with this action. After completion, the user can tap the back button which will take him back to the home screen. From there the user can finally choose the play button. This button takes the user to what is our fourth page. When landing on that page, we are greeted by a rather laidback environment. It is a lounge are within our virtual house where our pet sloth is having leisure time. He is playing with his friend who is also a pet. Here the user can tap the play button to carry out the action. The same progress bar like in the other 2 pages will appear showing the action is being complete. They you go, you have taken care of your pet! In its design, the app is very playful. It has gifs throughout and careful choices were made in choosing the backgrounds for each of the scenes. The motive was to make it an experience that is as fun as possible. The buttons in the game are also colourful in gradient to illustrate that. Github was quite helpful. The platform is helpful by providing examples other developers who might have made similar apps. It served as inspiration as to what I would do on my pet app. It inspired me to animate my pet instead of using static images.

Overall, the app was interesting to make and was an enjoyable experience. I feel the app, through its design and features, achieves what it is set out to do. The playful design language makes it enticing to interact with and encourages the user to interact with along with their pet. I feel that the assignment as a while really upgraded my app design skills, as I found myself exploring with different design elements I previously did not use. It also had its challenges, particularly with the coding aspect. It was quite complex, with all the different pages too. Nonetheless it was insightful to my skill and level of coding and gave me insight on where I should improve.

Pet App Report



